Analytical report on the average time spent on social media for the year 2022. This Analysis was done to analyze to analyze the time spent by users of selected social media platforms. using Microsoft Excel, the data was cleaned before using the Pivot table to build the charts and was able to come up with observations and recommendations for the Analysis. The dataset was gotten from Kaggle.com.
OBSERVATION
Base on the chart, the following observation where made;
The total hours spent by users on social media is 5029hours and the platform that generated the most income is Instagram with a total sum of $5,322,471.
The gender with that spent more time per hour on all of the social media platforms i.e. Instagram, YouTube, and Facebook are females with the total of 1718hours and the male gender had more percentage in terms of users.
Moreso, as shown by the charts, the age range with more income falls to the category 38-47years compared to the other age brackets with less income probably due to their age limitation.
Those under 38-47year, have over the years built more experience little wonder they earned more.
Australia as a country had more users who generated more income compared to the other locations on the chat and this can only be possible because Australia is a country that has social media friendly laws, as citizens are very free to politely express themselves and make adverts about their businesses and skills, equally paying lesser tax for businesses tied to social media.
The marketer managers had more female professionals compared to other the other professions and this due to the fact that women generally would prefer to be marketing managers than be software engineers owing to the fact that it requires extra efforts, more tedious and time consuming as against being a marketing manager.
RECOMMENDATIONS
The following recommendation where suggested base on the analysis done;
• Instagram generated more funds because they've made their platform so engaging that users lose count of time while using it, all the other social media platforms should inculcate more engaging features so as to equally keep users engage by so doing they would generate more funds as they would have users on their platform
• More male oriented content should be included in the all-social media platforms so as to encourage other gender types spend more time like the female gender which will ultimately generate more income for the owners of that platform.
• The government of the different country locations with users that has low income generated, should introduce and encourage social media friendly laws that will enable people fully engage the availability of these platforms in their country just like Australia did and by so doing, the government would also generate more income too.
• Both the marketer managers, the software engineering carriers should not be on gender basis but on equality basis, people should be encouraged not to choose any of this professions/carrier parts base on gender, as it’s a profession that everybody and anybody can launch into and become successful
